Document trusted Tasks list (#936)
enterprise-contract/ec-policies: antora/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/trusted_tasks.adoc

= Trusted Tasks

:numbered:

== Task Provenance using trusted Task list

The Enterprise Contract requires that all Konflux pipelines
use only tasks with the recorded provenance in the trusted Task list. See also
the "Task bundle is not acceptable"
xref:release_policy#unacceptable_task_bundle[release] and
xref:pipeline_policy#unacceptable_task_bundle[policy] rules where this list is
used.

The list of trusted Tasks is time based. A Task that is trusted today is not
necessarily trusted tomorrow. The trusted Task list may contain bundles that are
"too old" and no longer acceptable. The reason for this behavior is to allow

> users a  certain period of time to upgrade to a newer versio nof the Task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users a certain period of time to upgrade to a newer version of the Task.
```

Even when using a Task recorded in the trusted Task list, some policy rules may
emit a warning if the reference used is not the latest one on the list. This is
an attempt to notify users that although there are no violations today, an
update is required for continued compliance. In the example above, using b or c
would result in such a warning.

The process of adding Tasks to the list of trusted Tasks is described
xref:trusting_tasks.adoc[here].

== Trusted Task list

The structure of the trusted Task list is best illustrated by an example:

[source,yaml]
----
task-bundles: <1>
  registry.io/org/task-bundle:
    - digest: sha256:...
      effective_on: "2023-05-14T00:00:00Z"
      tag: latest
trusted_tasks: <2>
  git+https://gitforge.io/org/tasks.git//tasks/my-task/0.1/my-task.yaml: <3>
    - effective_on: "2023-05-14T00:00:00Z" <4>
      expires_on: "2024-05-14T00:00:00Z" <5>
      ref: 3672a... <6>
  oci://registry.io/org/task-bundle:latest: <3>
    - effective_on: "2023-05-14T00:00:00Z" <4>
      expires_on: "2024-05-14T00:00:00Z" <5>
      ref: sha256:... <6>

----
<1> Legacy format for tracking acceptable bundles, here only for backward

> compatibility

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
compatibility. Will be removed entirely in future.
```
